Yeah, I think it is worth spending a few
minutes to talk like we've like hand
waved around these generics.
And if you look at like how
[INAUDIBLE] Works that like T and
like extend string number of symbol,
those are generics.
And we've been around and we've
definitely like directly addressed them.
So let's spend a minute or
two or five or ten.
Just talk a little bit about
what they are and how they work.
Cuz like, we're gonna have to do some
like magic with them in a heartbeat in
order to kind of like solve that context
issue that we had before, right?
So we should probably at least
do our due diligence, right?
Like it's a little deviating from reaction
TypeScript to a little bit of type script.
But, when we start using them to solve
our context problem that I set up for us,
we're gonna need them.
So let's head over to the course website.
We're gonna go to the section on generics.
And I'm gonna open up
the TypeScript Playground too,
which is just tsplayground, And
all this is is looks like
Visual Studio Code, bigger fonts.
And you can see that like I was clearly
playing around like it saves your
last thing I was playing around with
template literals before, right?
You can see this is very similar.
So I have this user, got a first name and
last name and an age.
We saw this earlier when I was struggling
with the colour conversion cuz
the library's using.
So I showed you already how I can do this.
And that's super cool.
But then we're gonna talk a little
bit more generics in a second but
like this is kind of one that I made for
an action, right?
Which is, it should take some kind
of type, in this case user, right?
And user has these three keys, right?
So say, hey, we've got some
type that I'm gonna hand you
just like we did with partial and
omit before.
And then we're gonna say,
also we're gonna have another value.
Now there's single letters
cuz that's the convention.
Could you call this,
Like you wouldn't a JavaScript
verb you totally could.
So we've got,
the tag that we're passing in.
And then this one's a little trickier,
right?
Which we're saying we got this other
one called K, which stands for
key, which needs to be
one of the keys of T,
which is the user that I passed in,
and also a string.
Which first name is,
first name is a string absolutely.
And it is one of these keys.
All I am going to say is for
the years that I've been using TypeScript,
every time I saw one of
these I wanted to cry.
And then one day I had to do
something really complicated and
I just sat there I pumped one out and
it worked the first time.
I don't know when you cross the chasm.
I don't know how it happens.
I will just say this is a simple one,
like we can look at some more advancements
later, if this stresses you
out that it's an okay feeling,
there's no need to have impostor syndrome.
And then one day, you will surprise us
hopefully one day you will surprise
yourself and just like busting out with
[INAUDIBLE] And like conditionals and
it will do exactly what you want.
You will not know how you
acquired this superpower.
So, understand that this is a journey and
don't feel stressed out like this is kind
of why it's like a little bit of an aside.
But the really cool thing is that it
automatically looked at okay, cool.
First name has to be a key on user.
And then the payload automatically
became a value on the user object,right?
If I change this to, You can see that
it automatically became a number,right?
And this is great for reusability.
We started before there is a trade off
between should you get all fancy like this
or like would making three
actions by hand have been better.
If you are the maintainer of
like [INAUDIBLE] Redux and
you're trying to make a CreateAction
hook that generates the right type.
This is where you live now.
If you are the consumer of one of those
libraries, like I will not do in this.
I took one foray into the React types, And
I don't know that I came back
out the same person, right?
Like you can do similar version of these,
but this is kind of the and
I put a lot of reading on like some
really wild stuff about even some
of the implementation details and
some of the stuff,
but I'm mostly only going to touch lightly
on it because it doesn't fit the heuristic
of have I used it in my own production
codebase in the last six months to a year.
There was a question in
the chat why did it work for
age let's bring this all back
as a number and we said it but
if it's a string type age,
the key itself is a string, right?
The value because it's almost the same
syntax as regular like accessing
a value of an object in JavaScript, right,
which is we're saying go grab this key.
It's very much like in
JavaScript if we said const,
Right, in this case, the key is a string.
The value is a number, so
it's why age still works.
The key age is definitely a string.
It's a number that's a value, and
this is getting go into the type user.
Grab the key age and
its value is a number for the payload and
this is just using the template
literals that we saw before.